Article: 'How To Solve Conflicts In Package/Yarn Lock Files' (#112)
codesupport/website-frontend: src/data/articles/how-to-solve-conflicts-in-package-yarn-lock-files.md

---
title: How To Solve Conflicts In Package/Yarn Lock Files
author: LamboCreeper
date: '2023-11-18'
description: One of the most frustraiting things you'll come across as a developer is conflicts, what makes them even worse is when they are in programatically generated lock files.
---

> One of the most frustrating things you will face as a developer are merge conflicts, however sometimes there is no avoiding them. Whilst merge conflicts aren't necessarily difficult to solve within your own code, they can be tricky if they occur in a pre-generated file like `package-lock.json` or `yarn.lock`. Thankfully, solving a merge conflict in one of these files is a lot simper then it looks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the most frustrating things you will face as a developer are merge conflicts; however, sometimes there is no avoiding them. While merge conflicts aren't necessarily difficult to solve within your own code, they can be tricky if they occur in a pre-generated file like `package-lock.json` or `yarn.lock`. Thankfully, solving a merge conflict in one of these files is a lot simpler than it looks.
```

The first thing to do when you run into a merge conflict within `package-lock.json` or `yarn.lock` is to make sure you do not have any merge conflicts within your `package.json`. If you do have one, make sure to resolve it first - simply keep in the list of packages the ones you want to keep and remove any you do not.

> Next, replace the contents of the `package-lock.json` or `yarn.lock` file with the contents of the file on the branch you are merging in from (for example, the `main` or `master` branch). This should mean that are no changes if you went to merge from this point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, replace the contents of the `package-lock.json` or `yarn.lock` file with the contents of the file on the branch you are merging in from (for example, the `main` or `master` branch). This should mean that there are no changes if you went to merge from this point.
```

> Finally, re-run `npm i` or `yarn` to install the missing dependencies. This will add or remove any dependencies you've changed in the `package.json` updating the `package-lock.json` or `yarn.lock` in the process. Your merge conflict will now be sorted!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, rerun `npm i` or `yarn` to install the missing dependencies. This will add or remove any dependencies you've changed in the `package.json` updating the `package-lock.json` or `yarn.lock` in the process. Your merge conflict will now be sorted!
```
